Introduction
============

Vector addition is a fundamental operation in parallel computing, often serving as a basic building block for more complex algorithms. The concept involves adding corresponding elements of two vectors to produce a resulting vector. **When implemented efficiently, vector addition can significantly enhance the performance** of various applications, ranging from scientific simulations to real-time graphics rendering. As technology advances, heterogeneous computing using platforms such as CPUs and GPUs has become increasingly prevalent, prompting the need for efficient and portable programming models.

Traditionally, **the conventional approach of heterogeneous systems programming required developers to manage memory explicitly, leading to intricate and error-prone code.** However, with the advent of Unified Shared Memory (USM) in SYCL, the process has become notably streamlined and it enables the creation of memory regions that are accessible across different devices. Therefore, **USM eliminates the need for explicit data transfers between host and device memories.** This simplifies memory management and accelerates development that can drastically enhance both code readability and performance. Programmers can use USM to focus more on algorithmic design and less on memory-related intricacies.

In this exploration, we delve into two approaches for performing vector addition: the conventional method and the modern USM-enabled approach using SYCL. We'll examine the steps involved in both techniques, highlighting their individual strengths and limitations.